---
title: Useful Links for Any Student 
date: 2023-01-10 00:00:00 -0800
categories: [College Life Hacks, First Day]
tags: [student, school, college]                   #tags should always be lowercase
---

# Bypass Paywalls - Bypasses Article Paywalls
[Website](https://github.com/iamadamdev/bypass-paywalls-chrome)

- Bypass Paywalls is a web browser extension to help bypass paywalls for selected sites.

`Note: A full list of sites can be found at the link provided above. Firefox is recommended.`

<br>

# ChatGPT - A Better Siri
[Website](https://chat.openai.com/)

- ChatGPT is a powerful, open-source language model developed by OpenAI that is specifically designed for generating human-like text in response to user input. It is built on the GPT-3 architecture, which allows it to generate high-quality text in a variety of styles and formats. Unlike many other language models, ChatGPT is designed to be highly interactive, making it suitable for use in chatbots, dialogue systems, and other applications that require real-time, natural language generation. Additionally, ChatGPT has been trained on a massive amount of diverse data, allowing it to generate text that is both fluent and relevant to a wide range of topics. (This description was generated by it.)

<br>

# LanguageTool - Checks Your Writing
[Website](https://languagetool.org/)

- LanguageTool’s multilingual grammar, style, and spell checker supports Libreoffice, Apache OpenOffice, Microsoft Word, Ulysses, Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge and Google Chrome.
- Also, available as a standalone application. Supports about 20 languages (on different levels) and allows customization.

<br>

# Mybib - Citation Generator
[Website](https://www.mybib.com)

- Automatically create bibliographies, references, and citations in APA, MLA, Chicago, Harvard, and over 8,000 more styles with a totally free and no-ads citation generator.

- MyBib is a free bibliography and citation generator that makes accurate citations for you to copy straight into your academic assignments and papers.

- There are tools that already do this, but they’ve stagnated, become infested with ads, and charge you for features that should be free (especially for students).

- If you’re a student, academic, or teacher, and you’re tired of the poor bibliography and citation tools out there, then you’re going to love MyBib. MyBib’s auto citations are the best and most accurate one out there, so you can create accurate citations automatically for books, journals, websites, and videos just by searching for a title or identifier (like a URL or ISBN).

- You can also download your formatted bibliography in multiple different formats, or export it to be added in several other managers like Zotero or Mendeley.

<br>

# Extra's That Can't Be Linked, But Are Very Useful (Ranked Best - Worst)

- z-library `(Note: The only official z-library domain is the tor & i2p one)`
- Libgen 
- Annas-archive
- OceanofPDF 
- PDFDrive
- Lbryworm