---
title: Orbot - A Guide for College Students on Restricted Networks
date: 2023-01-06 12:00:00 -0800
categories: [College Life Hacks, First Day]
tags: [orbot, vpn, tor]                   #tags should always be lowercase
---

Orbot is a free and open-source software application that allows users to access the internet anonymously through the Tor network. It can be particularly useful for college students who are on a restricted or blocked network. 

Here is a guide on how to use Orbot to benefit as a college student on a restricted network:

1. Download Orbot from the [App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/orbot/id1609461599) or [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.torproject.android).
2. Once Orbot is installed, open the app and tap on the "Start" button to start the Tor network. `Note: On iOS devices, you may need to authenticate a VPN profile with your phone's passcode before continuing.`
3. Orbot will now establish a connection to the Tor network. This may take a few minutes.
4. Once Orbot is connected to the Tor network, you can use it to access websites that may be blocked or restricted on your college's network. 
5. You can begin browsing the internet anonymously through the Tor network. Any websites that were previously blocked on your college's network should now be accessible.
6. If you want to stop using Orbot, simply tap on the "Stop" button in the app. This will disconnect you from the Tor network.
7. If you want to customize your Orbot settings, tap on the "Settings" button in the app. Here, you can change various settings such as the proxy type, the number of hops, and the location of the Tor entry node.

By using Orbot, you can bypass internet restrictions and access blocked websites on your college's network. This can be particularly useful for researching or accessing course materials that may be restricted on the college's network. I hope this guide helps you get started with using Orbot as a college student on a restricted network!
